_Today's topic is going to be highly controversial. I am 100% prepared for this.
Don't dismiss this before you read it, give it a read then let's talk. The goal
here is to trigger a discussion on how to achieve a good balance that works for
you. So speak up in the comments with your own thoughts. This is targeted
towards less experienced creators (say less than 2 years of experience). There's
a trend of unfinished work in every creator community and Fortnite Creative is
no different at this point. Many creators say they have such a hard time
completing maps and most of the time it is because their projects are too big or
have such a high bar to be considered complete. So let's talk about a potential
shift in mindset that could help._

_So I'm writing this paragraph after writing the article. This is a HUGE topic
and I'll cover more concepts in the future. Hopefully this is a good enough
introduction to a change of mindset that could be very valuable to you as a
creator. I want to make sure these articles remain succinct and easy to digest.
In the future I'll cover more topics like Minimum Viable Product, Continuous
Delivery, and Lean Startups. These are important concepts that the software
industry have used to speed up development and get more value out of their time
that could be valuable to you as a creator. Enjoy!_

---

# Quantity over Quality

Before diving in, let's set a shared understanding first. When we refer to
quantity we are referring to `the amount or number of a material`. And when we
refer to quality we mean `the degree of excellence of something`. The saying
most are used to is _Quality over Quantity_. For budding creators however, a
focus on quality can create a desire for perfection that stops them from
completing a majority of their projects due to the time it takes to achieve
perfection. Instead of being helpful advice, it proves to be a demoralizing goal
that they can never truly reach as quality is subjective and when associated
with perfection can be unachievable.

## Your First Projects

Let's start with a scenario that many may recognize. It's your first project and
you want it to be perfect. You explore the tools and settle on something. Then
you spend a couple months to get it to a quality that you think really showcases
your newfound skillset. Then the next month you spend testing (as it can be hard
for newer creators to get testers), and perhaps a week on publishing. Then you
realize nobody is playing it so you have to focus on marketing and networking
for a few weeks. By the time you've gone through this entire process, you
realize suddenly that you have spent a third of the year on this. Now that
you've completed it, you go to start your next project. You've got momentum and
things will go faster. You also realize you have to keep showing your skills as
a creator and make a name for yourself. Then it dawns on you, even if it takes
half the time it will still be a couple months before you have something more to
show. That's a really long time.

## Skewed Expectations

This first project has set your expectations that content creation is hard work.
If you release something say every 3 months, by the end of the year you have a
portfolio with 4 projects. Do you think that your first four projects will be a
great showcase of your skillset? Don't you feel like you should have more for a
year of work? Experienced creators know that your skillset grows over time. You
learn tricks, you learn shortcuts, you build muscle memory, and so much more.
Practice makes perfect. If you never finish your next project because you're
demotivated by your expectations of time commitment or effort, you never get to
practice publishing or marketing or networking or testing.

## Making Perfect

So I propose this: challenge yourself to release something that you can publish
in a week. Do this three times. In less than a month you will have a portfolio
with three items. It may not be your best work, but you are building muscle
memory related to going through the entire lifecycle of a product. Spend that
last week of the month on marketing and networking. You'll see how much work is
required to get your stuff out there. Now project #4 will be a little bit
easier. Most creation tools have ways to update your work so don't stress on
quality right now. No project is ever truly dead. Every project you work on is a
living entity and you will return to make it even better because its your baby.
Whether you spend months on it or a week, experience tells us that you will
always want to make your content better. So rather than skew your expectations
with larger projects early on, perhaps take on the challenge. One month is only
a third of the time for your amazingly awesome project that is the best thing
you've ever created. What do you have to lose?
