_Today's topic is one that is definitely applicable across so many things.
Whether you are creating maps, or streaming, or even just doing art. I see this
happen throughout the community often and I wanted to make sure people were at
least aware of an alternative approach creating stuff. If you are on the grind
to get a job, then you need to do more than just wait for motivation. You need
to to commit to something that is more consistent and reliable and in your
hands._

---

# Discipline over Motivation

We feel motivation all the time. But how do we define it? Motivation can be
defined as `the general desire or willingness of someone to do something` . It's
about having a desire to put out work. But desire is a fleeting thing. It
doesn't always exist. It is wonderful and powerful when it does, but it just
isn't reliable when you are looking to make a career. Days at work aren't always
the most pleasant, but they need to be done regardless. When doing something as
a passion that you may want to make a career out of, the lack of payment makes
getting it done less likely as most rely on that desire to exist. Having this
requirement of desire makes it less likely that you can turn your passion into a
career. So instead, I propose you look at the concept of discipline as a
solution. In other words focus on the ability`to train or develop by instruction and exercise`.

## Overcoming Barriers

Motivation is a great way to start something. Something that you find enjoyable,
you start with the motivation to build something amazing and awesome. You enjoy
it, but eventually there will be days where that enjoyment doesn't exist as
strongly. Those days are harder to push through. Some of those days you will
just give up and decide to take a break. Other days you will push through and
get what you need done. Pushing through and getting it done, because you know
you need to is that discipline we are referring to. Not all days are fueled by
motivation in a creator's life, some days are carried by our own realization
that something needs to get done even if you don't want to do it. For example,
in order to publish the map you are working on, you need to create 16+ spawns
for it to actually work. This may not be the most fun activity, but it is a
requirement so you push through and get it done. This awareness of things that
need to get done and the effort to complete them, can be captured on a greater
scale to ensure that your work output remains consistent and ever growing.

## Start a Routine

Right now most developers utilize discipline to finish individual projects. The
goal is to just get yourself to the point where you have something complete. But
typically their use of discipline ends there. If your goal is to turn your
passion into a career, you need to take that realization of things that must be
done to a higher level. Realize that for a career to exist, you need consistency
in content that brings viewers/players/customers back on a regular basis. While
you may not have the desire to create at a given moment, know that you NEED to
create in order to bring about success. Desire is such a powerful thing, but
cannot be relied upon. Instead create a routine. Look for time in your every day
life that you normally have and just tell yourself, I NEED to be using this time
wisely and hence I need to be creating during these moments in my life that are
available. You don't need desire to create a portfolio, you need discipline. But
that doesn't mean desire is not useful, it just shouldn't be the norm that you
require.

## Motivation as a Boost

Instead of using motivation as your core energy source for creation, use
discipline and routine and that realization that things just need to get done.
Then when you do have motivation, use that as an energy drink. Get into the
habbit of sitting down every day after work, after school, after dinner, or when
you wake up to sit at your platform and go through the motions of creation. Look
at new art references or manipulate objects or actually tackle that to-do list
you are keeping either in your head or somewhere else. JUST DO IT! Then on the
days where you have this burning desire to create something, you won't just
create... you create at an amazing output and quality that you don't normally
do, this will evolve your passion into something that can offer you a living.
Isn't that what we all want in the end?
