_Today's article (and probably the next few) is inspired by the current growth
of gametypes like gun game, deathmatch, and other gametypes brought over from
other shooter games where level design is going to become an important factor
moving forward. I've been assisting creators in testing with large lobbies and
there are several growing trends that need to be addressed. A common technique
right now is using teleporters for more refined spawn points where you can
control direction and location better until we get a player spawner v2. A
player's spawn is one of the most important parts of your map and they need to
be placed deliberately and with intent rather than just thrown down. This is
just one of many aspects to pay attention to when you are placing spawns._

---

# Smooth Spawning

When building maps for games, one of the MOST important aspects of your map to
carefully consider is how player's enter your map... not just the first time,
but every time a player needs to reset and try again. This is commonly referred
to as a player spawning or respawning into a map. This moment in time sets the
stage for EVERY action that a player will take within the span of their next
life. From this point forward what they see, what they experience, and where
they can go can craft the ENTIRE experience that they have. Ensuring that every
spawn into your map is the most seamless experience a player has will setup
their impression of your map to be a good one.

## Get off on the Right Foot

Let's consider your first entrance into a level that you did not create. When
you spawn out of a black screen what do you think when all you see is a wall?
What effect does this have on you as a player? You have been given very little
information to go off of. Not only that, you may not realize this, but most
players actually start off EVERY single game and spawn by holding the W key or
forward on the joystick. We are a species that thrive off of instant
gratification, so the sooner we get into the action, the better. So if you
spawn, are facing a wall, and are automatically walking forward by nature, the
FIRST thing that happens is you bump into a wall and feel like an idiot. NOBODY
likes walking into a wall. It's embarassing, disorienting, and gives ZERO
information to your players.

## Time for Orientation

So sure... first thing is to not face a player's spawn facing a wall. Simple
rule to follow. But this goes beyond just that. Let's pretend we are in the real
world. You are wearing a blind fold (like a black screen in games), and have
this innate desire to walk forward the moment your blindfold is off (basically
holding forward movement on your input device). You "enter" this whole world
trying to take in everything around you, it is absolutely stunning and while you
are walking forward you hit a table, or a fire hydrant, or perhaps a roadblock.
All of the sudden your ENTIRE focus shifts away from the beauty in front of you
and becomes focused on the obstacle you stumbled upon. In real life we have pain
as an indicator that heavily shifts our focus, but in a virtual world we just
notice that suddenly we aren't moving forward and it becomes this subconsious
annoyance. Something that stole our attention away from taking in the beauty
that the creator spent so long crafting.

## Just enough Space

The moment a player enters your map for the first or the tenth or the thousandth
time is a sacred moment. One where we don't know where we are beginning this
newfound life. We could spawn in the courtyard or in the entrance hall or in a
bathroom. When we know we may be in immediate danger on spawn, we prioritize
figuring out where we are so we can assess the situation and make good
decisions. If we run into something that pulls our attention away from being
able to orient ourselves, it could potentially put us in grave danger. It stops
us from being able to realize that there is a threat nearby, because now we have
to adjust for this nuisance. So let's end with a basic rule of thumb. EVERY
spawn you place on the map needs to face in a direction that is both meaningful
and has about **three** seconds of forward walking clearance with no obstacles.
This allows players to orient themselves with no distractions. And if I catch
you having a drop off into a cliff or hole or into a death zone of sorts in
those first three seconds, I'm going to cry.
