*Today I'm starting a new habit for the decade. I want to write a series on
game/level design, content creation, and workflow productivity. This isn't my
first time doing this. I created a series of 52 lessons for the Halo Forge
community. These lessons aren't intended to be full walkthroughs or deep dives
into a topic. They are intended to introduce a concept, to bring exposure to it
for discussion. There are SOOO many aspects that we can focus on as creators and
sometimes there are topics that seem like common sense, but in reality not
everyone knows them. So if you see topics that are simple and you already knew,
then consider that not everyone is immediately aware. And the beauty of bringing
it to light is looking at it and REALLY considering it, not just letting it sit
in the back of your mind. Bring it forward to discuss with others.

Today I bring you the first. The topic of Innovation I think is one of the most
important, because it is common to see the success of a set of standard flair
styles and then trying to directly copy just to try to grab some recognition for
yourself. This ends up in a near endless sea of more of the same, rather than
evolution in the community. Started with turtle wars to deathruns to build
fights to zone wars to box fights. There's nothing wrong with joining in on
trends for many reasons, but before you do take a moment and consider your
option of being a pioneer versus doing more of the same... not just for
yourself, but also for the growing community.

NOTE: These sections in italics are written with the context of today in mind
and this will be the case for every future lesson (also today's is a bit longer
as it is the first, so expect just one paragraph moving forward). But the goal
is everything after these sections are written to be as timeless as possible.
But nobody is perfect. This series isn't meant to be law, it is my own
perspective after focusing on design for over the past decade. Feel free to take
it with a grain of salt. All I can hope is that it helps even one person, and
I'll leave it at that. Hope you enjoy today's lesson and I'll see y'all next
week. <3*

# Innovation

We'll start with what is innovation and why is it the first lesson? Quick
dictionary definition: `a new method, idea, product, etc.`. Simply something
that hasn't been done before. But innovation isn't just one large thing, but can
range in scale and amount. Sometimes innovation isn't just in singular items,
but in the synergy of multiple items that are commonly seen in a scene. For
example buttered toast and coffee is normal separately, but dipping your
buttered toast in your coffee is not. Innovation is a driving factor of evolving
an industry, intentional or not. This is why it is the first. The backbone of a
community tends to thrive off of new innovations in the field and leads to
growth and new fads. Are you sick of seeing the same thing happening week to
week? Innovation is the solution until something sticks. Where does this start?
With you making the active decision to go beyond and explore the outside of the
box that is trending and stylistic for the times.

## Stand Out

The most immediate value that you get out of focusing on innovation is standing
out. If everyone does X, then you doing Y is going to immediately draw attention
to yourself. Sometimes that attention is negative and heavily critiqued, but
attention nonetheless, and that's the start and the focus here. Learn to get
noticed. Understanding what stands out isn't always something that can be done
theoretically. If you even think something is different, just DO IT. If you get
feedback that it isn't really that different, that is still valuable information
for you. USE THAT. Don't just sulk and defend that you are different and
standout. If your target audience doesn't agree, use that information. Doesn't
mean your innovation was not innovated; as it did in fact stir up conversation.
At that point, then you know your idea wasn't innovative ENOUGH. Even this
measurement is valuable.

## Explore Variations

Alright so let's be real here, true innovation is sooo difficult. Inspiration is
where your mind will spend most of its time. WHICH IS OK! There's nothing wrong
in looking at something and thinking "I wonder what would happen if I do this
instead". So when in doubt, look for your favorite stuff in the community and
figure out a fun twist to it. Is everyone creating X? Well turn it into a Y by
ripping off one of those bottom legs and straightening it so you have a Y. Did I
lose you? My point is don't be afraid to innovate off of something else. There
is great value to taking something trending and successfully innovating on it.
Feeding off of it's position in the market is probably more powerful than being
the first to do something. History shows us that there is such thing as doing
something before its time. There is no shame in inspiration. Just be sure to be
courteous to your fellow creators and attribute your inspiration accordingly.

## The Many Axis of Innovation

When considering innovation, remember to open your mind. If you are more of an
artist, then perhaps you are only considering innovating on the visuals of maps.
If you are more of a systems designer, perhaps you are only considering
innovating game mechanics. Innovation doesn't happen on a single axis, there are
many areas that need innovation. Even the meta of content creation can involve
innovation. Underground marketing is an example. Perhaps there is a common way
to share a creation either through a code or a download link. Maybe instead of
doing it the normal way you go viral by only word of mouth. The music industry
has a few of these with secret gigs. Don't restrict yourself to one axis of
innovation. Think art, think mechanics, think marketing, think publishing, think
networking, think story, think EVERYTHING. Innovate on innovation. It's a thing,
I promise.
