_Today's article is inspired by those that are looking to grow and find success
in the Fortnite Creative community. Lately, I've had the opportunity to work
with creators in the community and help coach them towards success. I've learned
a lot in my day and something that I've seen around is a focus on expecting to
get feedback and testing with little to no effort on their own part. Getting
feedback and the time of others isn't about just luck or popularity, it's also
about the time you have given to others. So today we talk about being a champion
for your peers._

---

# Be a Champion

Let's talk about being a champion in your community. I'm not talking about being
an outright winner, but being a champion of the work of fellow creators. When
defined as a verb, champion refers to the act of
`protecting or fighting for something`. This is characteristic that is sorely
lacking among the human race. Supporting the work of others offers benefits for
the entire community as opposed to only speaking of your own work.

## Do unto Others

Throughout every community you will find new creators that seek to gain
attention by just straight out asking individuals. This drive to succeed is
valuable, but channeled in the wrong way can lead to being discourteous to those
around you. Let's say you are running late to work and could lose your job, and
on your commute a person you have never met asks if you can help them move heavy
boxes up into their apartment. While we all want to help, we cannot rely on the
fact that strangers have our best interests at heart or are even aware of the
complexities of our responsibilities and our lack of availability. We do not
judge these strangers poorly, and we empathize as we have been through moves
ourselves. Perhaps next time when you aren't running late to work. Direct
requests for time and effort can result in feeling unimportant on one side and
guilty on the other.

So considering this, what do we need to do to get ourselves out there if we
can't just ask. Open requests for feedback on social media is a reasonable way
to do this rather than out right asking people directly. Then those that have
the bandwidth to help will do so. Many are probably thinking, "well I do that
and nobody responds". There's a simple way to grow your ability to gain feedback
on your work.

## Culture of Support

If you want to be in a society where people offer their time to check out your
work, be a role model and offer out your time to others. If you see others with
an open request for feedback take the time to really give them quality feedback.
Play, explore, and experience their content fully and then return with not just
a judgement on it, but consider leaving a critique sandwich. If you don't know
what a critque sandwich is, the idea is to start with a compliment on what you
liked, then respectfully offering something they could improve upon, and topped
with another compliment to demonstrate that you do actually appreciate and
respect the time they put into their work. Doing this will not only build their
confidence in themselves, but also offer an opportunity to improve in a healthy
and non-threatening way. Do this enough, and eventually people will take notice
of your name and when you make a request for feedback, they will return the
favor of time and attention spent when they have it available.

## Give without Expectation

Here's the thing though, don't ever make this good will given about you getting
feedback. The ideal here is that everyone grows to respect another's work and
when time is available they offer their efforts towards fellow creators. With
enough people doing this, there will be loads of feedback and growth all around
the community. But it starts with you. Set the example, and just hope that
others follow. If you go years of helping people in a genuine and sincere way,
one day people will do the same to you. Live off that hope, but don't create an
expectation of it. That is the opposite of selfless, and it will only create an
isolation chamber for you to dwell in until you are ready to give yourself fully
to others. If you find something you truly and deeply enjoy, be an advocate for
your favorite creators and fill the world with the praise you have for their
content. Be the Champion that all creators need in their life.
