_Had a problem choosing exactly what to write for today's lesson. But something
that I've seen a lot in this community is a lot of great ideas and a sort of
"meh" response when I'm like "GO BUILD IT". I'm guilty of it to. Recently I was
like, this idea might be dumb. Here's the thing. The initial idea was kind of
meh, but just building it and getting that experience showed me the flaws and
gave me ideas on what to do to make it better. You never know, until you try._

---

# Apply Theories

Something that happens time and time again is the feeling of having no ideas for
what to build. Here's the thing... you actually do have ideas. More often than
not, "having no ideas" actually translates into "I have no ideas that I think
will work". Ideas actually come more often than you realize. Try to think about
all the moments where you were like, "you know what would be cool". I'm sure
you've said that way more than you realize. Each of these moments are an idea
that is waiting to be realized. But instead people get stuck in the theory stage
and never take the time to pursue it. I guarantee so many amazing ideas have
been lost to this lack of application of a theory.

## Seeing is Believing

A seed of an idea has very little identity in and of itself. There are so many
factors in growing that seed into something that is fully realized. Often by the
time you realize an idea fully it barely resembles the seed you started with. A
major problem that exists with even good creators is they throw away ideas too
easily. Then they go through phases of "I don't know what to build". However
GREAT creators, seem to never ever run out of ideas. Why is this? Do they just
have this ability to churn out an idea when they are done with a project. No.
Like you they are human and have a limit to their ability to create on demand.
More often than not though, they actually have a backlog growing. Most people
should have more ideas than they know what to do with. The most common counter
to this is that not every idea is a good idea. Well...

## Context creates Unpredictability

Here's the thing. Context matters and changes EVERYTHING. If I told you there is
a pistol and a rocket launcher available to be chosen, what do you think would
be picked up? Most would say the rocket launcher. A few astute individuals
though would say "it depends". Because it does depend. In a game where precision
damage matters more (one tap headshots for example), the rocket launcher fails
miserably at this task. While this is a clear example, there are contexts that
we cannot take into account easily. Perhaps in the past building a capture the
flag gametype would have been a great idea, but now it would be a bad idea
because you were not able to predict that there was a surge in CTF maps in the
past few months. Suddenly, building a CTF map becomes a worse idea. One cannot
simply say "it will never work". Because there may be a context that you are not
considering that may make it work well. So rather than theorize, perhaps instead
you should just build.

## Keep a List

Remember that backlog of ideas I referenced? Great creators don't just come up
with ideas on demand. Instead the moment they have an idea or see something
unique enough to create an idea off of, the first thing they do is add it to
their list of ideas. Coming up with ideas on demand is SOOO hard. So instead of
having the ideas come to you... capture them for a rainy day. From this moment
forward, when you prefix a statement with "you know what would be cool" or
something similar, WRITE IT DOWN. No matter how useless and ridiculous that
initial idea seemed to be. In the end it is safer to have more ideas than you
can handle rather than stuck thinking you have none at all. Having none at all
is demoralizing and can create other problems like quiting content creation all
together. Mix that list of ideas with the concept of using **Discipline over
Motivation**, and you have a powerful combination that will set you up for
massive success.
