# Worklog

## #3

We explored the power of teleporters and setup a teleporter at the bottom of
each of the main outer ramps. This will serve as the new entrance into the map
and you will now respawn in the spawn room, which gives you the opportunity to
change your loadout midgame. Or when someone joins midgame they can select their
loadout. Next thing to do is to finish walling off the map and then test it.
Then we probably want to work on making the spawn room look awesome.

## #2

Continued to remove another 2 tiles from each side of Inception. Tested the
unloading of the map and it seems to actually unload now, which is exactly the
progress we needed. So I just need to seal it up and it should be playable at
this point. The next thing I want to work on is to add teleporters and allow
people to spawn in the spawn room and take the teleporter whenever they are
ready. This will allow players to change weapons every spawn, and also allow new
players to still grab weapons and stuff.

## #1

We are focused on getting Inception featured on Fortnite Creative right now. So
the first thing we need to do is make sure it loads and unloads efficiently
rather than lag up the entire session and require a restart of Creative. So I
started with remove 2 tiles on each side, but it seems to not be working well
enough yet. So next session we'll remove 2 more tiles on each side.

## #10

We finished the adjustment of the size of the sign to half of what it was. This
shrunk the room to a much more manageable size, which allowed us to pull in all
the walls and shrink the entire room so that way it makes better use of the
space and will ultimately waste less of players time walking around. Next thing
to do is to add the spawns and move the sign closer to the wall and to the side.
And we should be close to done. Should be good by the end of the stream.

## #9

Adjusted the positioning of all the weapons into groups. I started to explore
labeling the groups and didn't like the obvious solution, so the first thing I'm
going to do is reduce the size of the sign in the back to reduce the size of the
room. A smaller room should lend itself to a better setup for the weapons.

## #8

Spent time organizing the weapons into types, then started cleaning up excess
pieces outside of the spawn room. Cleaned up the corners so they look better and
fit all 16 spawns, and added pillars for a cleaner more polished look.

## #6, #7

Setup the full shape of the spawn room, including the quick access spawn point
to get back into the game quicker. I've also fully ported over the signage from
the old Inception. So now the spawn room looks good. Next we have to organize
the weapons and add some labeling to make things a little more self explanatory.
I also need to setup two classes, one for playing the game, and one for being in
the spawn room. Should only take a few more sessions, might finish tomorrow
fully.

## #5

Started by bringing over the old Inception sign that I made when Creative first
came out. We will use that to decorate the spawn room. In addition we started
redesigning the spawn room, setting it up so that way people can get back into
the action faster, but still have the option to change their loadout between
spawns if they so choose.

## #4

Closed up the map with walls and also removed any excess walls to reduce all
possible chances for too much memory. Everything seems to perform way better
now. So the next thing I want to start doing is clean up the spawn room.

## #3

We explored the power of teleporters and setup a teleporter at the bottom of
each of the main outer ramps. This will serve as the new entrance into the map
and you will now respawn in the spawn room, which gives you the opportunity to
change your loadout midgame. Or when someone joins midgame they can select their
loadout. Next thing to do is to finish walling off the map and then test it.
Then we probably want to work on making the spawn room look awesome.

## #2

Continued to remove another 2 tiles from each side of Inception. Tested the
unloading of the map and it seems to actually unload now, which is exactly the
progress we needed. So I just need to seal it up and it should be playable at
this point. The next thing I want to work on is to add teleporters and allow
people to spawn in the spawn room and take the teleporter whenever they are
ready. This will allow players to change weapons every spawn, and also allow new
players to still grab weapons and stuff.

## #1

We are focused on getting Inception featured on Fortnite Creative right now. So
the first thing we need to do is make sure it loads and unloads efficiently
rather than lag up the entire session and require a restart of Creative. So I
started with remove 2 tiles on each side, but it seems to not be working well
enough yet. So next session we'll remove 2 more tiles on each side.
